## Final Project Abstract

Across the world, failing governments systemically deny civil rights and political liberties to citizens. Freedom and representation exist in an inextricable entanglement; states cannot improve a population’s well-being without an accurate measurement of where the population suffers. Quantifying and modeling the relationship between political crises and migration can provide insight into a location’s propulsiveness and how to promote human development despite crises such as forced displacement or climate change-induced migration. States struck with war and poverty, particularly those in the African and Middle Eastern regions, suffer from a critical lack of census information. In Lebanon, the most recently enumerated census data comes from 1932. In Somalia, the only public census occurred in 1975. Political instability and civil unrest preclude census takers from performing their research, and corrupt governments may block procured data. This instability and its connections to population and demographic shifts would elucidate quantitative indicators of social and political well-being. 

Synthetic population data provides a realistic opportunity for researchers to obtain data concerning migratory patterns. Census microdata provides high-resolution, anonymized samples of national census data and allows for a more robust migration model in underrepresented regions. This research proposal primarily explores two methods: the gravity-type spatial interaction model (GTSIM) and hierarchical Bayesian modeling for uncertainty. The gravity-type spatial interaction model can track human movement using sparse census data, while hierarchical Bayesian modeling can identify and adapt to irregularities and uncertainty in migratory census data and create a confidence interval that better informs organizational response. In the Middle East and Africa, such models are useful tools for understanding and predicting migration flows in areas where data remains sparse, and understanding the impact of political crises such as terrorism, government instability, or climate change. 
